docs(cli): Add code mappings documentation page (#17196)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/cli/code-mappings.mdx

---
title: "Code Mappings"
sidebar_order: 5
description: "Upload code mappings to Sentry via the CLI. Code mappings link stack trace paths to source code paths in your repository, enabling source context, suspect commits, and code owners."
---

Code mappings link stack trace paths to source code paths in your repository. They enable features like [source context](/platforms/java/source-context/), [suspect commits](/product/issues/suspect-commits/), [stack trace linking](/organization/integrations/source-code-mgmt/github/#stack-trace-linking), and [code owners](/product/issues/ownership-rules/).

You can manage code mappings through the Sentry web UI (see [Setting Up Code Mappings](/product/issues/suspect-commits/#set-up-code-mappings)), or upload them in bulk using `sentry-cli`.

## Permissions

> The `sentry-cli` requires an [Organization Token](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/organizations/:orgslug/settings/auth-tokens/) with the `org:ci` scope to upload code mappings.

Author: Yep, those would work. However, I'm not sure I want to promote user tokens here, since the primary usecase is to call this in Ci -- at least we don't do that in the other sections (Release Manager or Debug Files, which also [allow](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry/blob/21ac14e8bc375f7a71797ca9aa71305585ad53b4/src/sentry/api/bases/organization.py#L140-L146) using user tokens).

## Upload Code Mappings

<Alert>

You need to specify the organization and project you are working with because code mappings work on projects. For more information about this refer to [Working with Projects](/cli/configuration/#sentry-cli-working-with-projects).

> </Alert>

Reviewer: Let's drop it here; we can align on the other pages in a separate PR

### JSON File Format

The input file should be a JSON array of mapping objects, each with a `stackRoot` and `sourceRoot`.

The following example is based on the [getsentry/sentry-java](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java) monorepo, which has multiple modules sharing the `io/sentry` package prefix:

```json {filename:mappings.json}
[
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry/android/core",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry-android-core/src/main/java/io/sentry/android/core"
  },
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry/opentelemetry",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry-opentelemetry/sentry-opentelemetry-core/src/main/java/io/sentry/opentelemetry"
  },
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry/opentelemetry",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry-opentelemetry/sentry-opentelemetry-bootstrap/src/main/java/io/sentry/opentelemetry"
  },
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry/src/main/java/io/sentry"
  }
]
```

- **stackRoot**: The path prefix as it appears in stack traces (e.g. `io/sentry/android/core` for Java, `src/` for Python/JS).
- **sourceRoot**: The corresponding path in your repository where the source code lives.

> Multiple mappings can share the same `stackRoot` if they point to different `sourceRoot` paths. In the example above, `io/sentry/opentelemetry` maps to two different modules. Sentry evaluates mappings from most specific to least specific, using the first one that resolves to a real file in the repository.

Reviewer: l: I think it makes sense to reorder this. Right now, we start the description, have an example, then continue the description afterwards. I would do the full description first, then the example under a subheading, like so:

````suggestion
The input file should be a JSON array of mapping objects, each with a `stackRoot` and `sourceRoot`:
- **stackRoot**: The path prefix as it appears in stack traces (e.g. `io/sentry/android/core` for Java, `src/` for Python/JS).
- **sourceRoot**: The corresponding path in your repository where the source code lives.

Multiple mappings can share the same `stackRoot` if they point to different `sourceRoot` paths. In the example below, `io/sentry/opentelemetry` maps to two different modules. Sentry evaluates mappings from most specific to least specific, using the first one that resolves to a real file in the repository.

#### Example

This example is based on the [getsentry/sentry-java](https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java) monorepo, which has multiple modules sharing the `io/sentry` package prefix:

```json {filename:mappings.json}
[
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry/android/core",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry-android-core/src/main/java/io/sentry/android/core"
  },
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry/opentelemetry",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry-opentelemetry/sentry-opentelemetry-core/src/main/java/io/sentry/opentelemetry"
  },
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry/opentelemetry",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry-opentelemetry/sentry-opentelemetry-bootstrap/src/main/java/io/sentry/opentelemetry"
  },
  {
    "stackRoot": "io/sentry",
    "sourceRoot": "sentry/src/main/java/io/sentry"
  }
]
```
````
